My summary of the btc whitepaper introduction:

###############################################################################################################################
1. Introduction
###############################################################################################################################
===============================================================================================================================
p1. My summary:

- Internet commerce is reliant on 3rd parties to process payments.
- Completely non-reversible transactions are not possible.
- 3rd party financial institutions mediate disputes.
- Mediation costs have consequences:
    - Increase transaction costs
    - Limit the minimum practical transaction size
    - Does not faciliate small casual transactions
    - Loss of ability to make non-reversible payments for non-reversible services
        - Because of the possibility of reversal the need for trust spreads
            - Merchants require information of their customers
            - A certain percentage of fraud is accepted as unavoidable

These costs and payment uncertainties can be avoided in person using physical currency but "no mechanism exists to make payments over a communications channel without a trusted party".

p1. My comments:

I'm not sure I agree that the uncertainties can be avoided in person...it seems to all be a judgement of probability, priority, and risk tolerance...but in a sense I understand...

===============================================================================================================================
p2. My Summary:

- a remedy to the above is cryptographic proof instad of trust
    - therefore two parties transact directly without the need for a trusted 3rd party
    - computationally impractical transaction reversal would protect sellers from fraud
    - a routine escrow could be implemented to protect buyers
    - this paper proposes a p2p distributed timestamp solution to the double spending problem
    - "the system is secure as long as honest nodes collectively control more CPU power than any cooperating group of attacker nodes"

p2. My Comments:

Sounds great - proof is in the pudding...


=================================================================================================================================





    TO BE CONTINUED...
