My summary of the btc whitepaper proof of work summary:

###############################################################################################################################
4. Proof-Of-Work
###############################################################################################################################
===============================================================================================================================
p1. My Summary:

SN says to do a p2p distributed timestamp server you must have proof of work
- he cites Adam Back's Hashcash
- proof of work involves scanning for a value that when hashed ie w SHA-256 the hash begins with a number of zero bits
- the average work required is exponential in the number of zero bits required but can be verified with a single hash


p1. My Comments:
- I don't really understand much of what is being talked about here
- this may be related to a Nonce which according to NIST is:

"A random or non-repeating value that is included in data exhanged by a protocol, usually for the purpose of guaranteeing the transmittal of live data rather than replayed data, thus detecing and protecting against replay attacks."

www.csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/nonce


================================================================================================================================


p2. My Summary:

- a nonce in the block is incremented until a value is found that gives the block's hash the required zero bits. 
    - this expends CPU effort
    - when PoW satisfied the block cannot be changed without redoing the work
    - as blocks are chained the work to change would include redoing all the blocks after it


p2. My Comments:

- I understand this generally but am having difficulty understanding the mechanics of it


================================================================================================================================

p3. My Summary:

- PoW also makes representation be one cpu = one vote rather than one ip address = one vote
- A majority decision is represented by th longest chain which will have the greatest CPU effort. 
- As long as a majority of CPU power is controlled by honest nodes the honest chain will grow fastest. 
- To modify a past block would be very very expensive and require unrealistic performance. 

p3. My Comments

- So PoW makes the timestamp work and also keeps majority decision making based on CPU not IP

================================================================================================================================

p4. My Summary:

PoW is determined by a moving average of blocks per hour
    - if blocks generated too fast the difficulty increases
    - this compensates for increase hardware speed and varying interest in running nodes over time

p4. My Comments

- Appears this is the difficulty adjustment. 
- According to Saif this requires electricity aquisition below market rate for a profitable node...
