My summary of the btc whitepaper network:

###############################################################################################################################
5. Network
###############################################################################################################################
===============================================================================================================================
p1. My Summary:

Steps to run the network:

1. New tx are broadcast to all nodes.
2. Each node collects new transactions into a block.
3. Each node works on finding a difficut PoW for its block.
4. When a node finds a PoW it broadcasts the block to all nodes.
5. Nodes accept the block only if all tx in it are valid and not already spent. 
6. Nodes express their acceptance of the block by working on creating the next block in the chain, using the hash of the accepted block as the previous hash. 

p1. My Comments:

It is number 3 that I don't quite understand - is there a single PoW it is looking for?


===============================================================================================================================
p2. My Summary:

Longest chain always considered the correct chain by nodes.
Nodes always want to extend the longest. 
If two nodes broadcast different versions of the block simultaneously:
    - nodes receive one or the other first
    - they work on the first received but save the other
    - tie is broken when next PoW is found and one branch becomes longer
    - nodes working on the other branch will switch to the longer

p2. My Comments:

If I am understanding correctly the nodes take up work on the first broadcast with block of correct tx and PoW. If there is dispute as to the first they save the other and the winner is identified when the next PoW is found. It seems like there could be several and it seems as though this is a strange way to pick the winner...I wonder if this can be visualized. 

===============================================================================================================================
p3. My Summary:

New tx broadcasts don't need to reach every single node - they only need to reach many. 
Block broadcasts are tolerant of dropped messages because a node missing a block will request it when it receives the next block. 

p3. My Comments:

None at this time. 
