My summary of the btc whitepaper calculations:

###############################################################################################################################
11. Calculations
###############################################################################################################################
===============================================================================================================================
p1. My Summary:

- in event of a 51 attack it does not throw the system open to arbitrary changes
  - the attacker cannot take money that never belonged to them
  - the attacker cannot create money from thing air
  - nodes will refuse to accept an invalid transaction as payment
  - honest nodes will never accept a block containing invalid transaction payments
  - an attacker can only try to change one of his own transactions to take back money they already spent
  
  
p1. My Comments:

- understand in theory

===============================================================================================================================

p2. My Summary:

- Binomial Random Walk
  - the race between an attacker chain and an honest chain
  - the success event is the honest chain being extended by one block
    - increasing its lead by +1
  - the failure event is the attacker's chain being extended by one block
    - reducing the gap by -1
    
p2. My Comments:

Binomial: a mathematical expression consisting of two terms connected by a plus or minus sign
  - ie: a + b
  - A Binomial is a polynomial of two terms
  - some definitions say it is the sum or difference of the two terms


Binomial Random Variable: counts how often a particular event occurs in a fixed number of tries. 

For a variable to be binomial random variable all must be true:

  - There are a fixed number of tries
  - On each try the event of interest occurs or does not
  - The probability of occurrence (or not) is teh same on each try
  - Tries are independent of one another
  
  n = number of trials (sample size)
  p = probability event of interest occurs on any one trial
  
  P(x) = n!/x!(n-x)!  *  p^x(1-p)^n-x
  
  this will evaluate a binomial distribution

===============================================================================================================================

p3. My Summary:

- probability of attacker catching up from a given deficit is same as Gambler's Ruin problem
    - gambler with unlimited credit starts at a deficit plays potentially infinite tries to reach breakeven
    - the calculation is:
    
    p = probability an honest node finds the next block
    q = probability the attacker finds the next block
    q_z = probability the attacker will ever catch up from z blocks behind
    
    q_z= {  1     if p=<q}
         {(q|p)^z if p>q}


p3. My Comments:

- math. boo. math. 


===============================================================================================================================

p4. My Summary:

- when p > q the probability drops exponentially as number of blocks the attacker has to catch up increases
- if attacker doesn't make a lucky lunge early the chances become very very small as he falls behind

p4. My Comments:

- exponentially behind. thats what she said. 

